Well the photoelectric effect,
clearly suggests that the light,
sometimes can behave as
a beam of particles.
The other players in the effect,
the electrons,
were not really suspected to represent
anything but particle-like entities.
However, this letter picture was too,
questioned by a number of theorists back
in the beginning of the last century.
Another theory by Prince Louis de Broglie,
who suggested that massive particles
can sometimes behave as waves.
He was also a bit off, in thinking
that the photon also has a mass but
apart from this idea that
didn't quite work out.
His other hypothesis
turned out to be correct.
But it was actually serendipity,
that plays such an important
role in physics sometimes.
That produced the clearest experimental
results, that confirmed De Broglie's
hypothesis, and put a nail in
the coffin of classical physics.
So let me tell you about this
experiment and actually,
a rather curious story behind it.
In April of 1925, these two gentlemen,
Clinton Davisson and
Lester Germer, were working in
a physics lab at the Bell laboratories.
And they were studying how electrons
skitter off a nickel target.
They probably didn't expect
any groundbreaking results
when they started this experiment.
And their initial results, as a matter of
fact, were consistent with their sort-of
boring expectation of a diffusive
scattering of electrons off of the target.
So here is the diagram of the paper,
which shows from the original paper
they eventually published in 1927.
Which shows the apparatus they used.
So here we have this part,
which is a gun, electron gun,
which shoots electrons towards the target.
And so, this part is a nickel
target they were studying.
So another part of the apparatus is
this detector, which detects electrons.
And they can look around and by doing so,
they can study the angular distribution
of the scattered electrons.
However, what this diagram and
the paper don't discuss and
don't show,
is the full history of the event.
Namely, the diagram doesn't show a bottle
of liquid air that was sitting nearby.
And which exploded, due to the heat
coming from this target presumably.
And so, this air and
this smashed vacuum chamber surrounding
this apparatus and the air,
rushed into the chamber.
Oxidizing, here they're
oxidizing the nickel target.
So this was unpleasant by itself perhaps,
but it also made
the target they were using completely
useless for other experiments.
Because it was completely oxidized, so
Davisson and Germer decided to save
the target by hitting it up and
by annealing it to get rid of the oxide.
So they did so and
put it back into the chamber and so,
they repeated their experiment
with the new target.
Well, with the old target but
which had been annealed.
But to their amazement, the picture of
the scattered electrons that they saw
was completely different from the picture
they had seen before the accident.
But why did the results change?
What was different?
In trying to resolve this mystery,
Davisson and
Germer examined the nickel target a little
closer and concluded that heated it up.
Annealing it,
resulted in this transformation
from a fully crystalline form.
Which basically implies a number of small,
small crystals put together
in a random fashion.
To a few single crystals with
a perfect crystalline order inside.
So explained the new results,
but what are those new results?
So instead of a random blob of scattered
electrons, they now saw clear peaks.
Corresponding to the electron
beams reflected from the crystal
at certain specific angles.
And these were strongly dependent on
the energy of incoming electrons.
So this plot here, is actually a plot from
the original paper by Davisson and Germer.
And it shows so-called scattering curves,
for what they called the 54 volt and
55 volt electron beam.
Those numbers refer to
the energy of electrons.
Perhaps a more illuminating,
modern feature
of this same phenomenon they discovered
is of course a different experiment.
With maybe different material but
the same phenomenon, now known as
electron diffraction, is presented here.
And so what is remarkable here is,
that this time phenomenon is something
that only waves can exhibit.
Upon propagation through
a regular array of scantron.
So these bright spots here correspond
to the directions along which
the intensity of this scantron
electron beam is high.
And so, this phenomenon is known and
here, is a reminder or a, of this picture.
So if we send a wave towards a crystal,
depending on the angle,
the reflected waves from different layers.
They can either enhance each other,
if they appear in phase or
they can appear out of phase.
In which case,
they will cancel each other out and
this will correspond to sort
of dark regions in this plot.
And while this had been known before
Davisson and Germer's experiment,
and they readily recognized it.
And found that their
data made perfect sense
if the hypothesis were to be accepted.
And so, they actually it's the same,
their paper exclusively,
here's a quote from the paper.
The most striking correct
characteristics of this beams is,
the one to one correspondents.
which the strongest of them
bared to the beams that would be
found issuing from the same crystal.
Even in incident beam,
break beam of X-Rays.
So, they're saying if they were to sketch
our x-rays of the same free cells,
they would show the same picture.
And finally, they say this, so
their data made sense, if it involves
the association of a wavelength.
With the incident electron beam,
and this wavelength turns out to be
in acceptable agreement
with the value of h/mv.
H being the Planck's action, constant
divided by the momentum of the electron.
So this was a rather remarkable, very
fabrication of Prince de Broglie ideas.
And the main equation,
which again, is this equation,
which relates the property
itself of particle.
With the mass moving
a certain velocity to a wave
that would be associate
with this particle.
And these ideas brought him a Nobel
prize just four years later.
So to summarize,
let me just tell you what we've learned so
far in the last two segments.
So far in the first lecture,
we have talked about two
Nobel-prize winning works.
The photoelectric effect and
the electron diffraction and all in all,
we met in passing at least six Nobel
laureates in our first lecture.
Feynman, Michelson, Lenard, Einstein,
Davisson, and De Broglie, so not too bad.
And we have seen and
these are basically the main
conclusions from the two
experiments we just discussed.
We have seen that there is a clear
experimental evidence that light,
behaves sometimes as a beam of
particles carrying energy quanta.
And the frequency released
to the energy as so, or
the wave length of why it
released to the energy.
According to this expression where or
proportionality is the blank constants.
So here, there's a frequency of light,
cease the speed of light and
is the wave length.
So in other hand, there's also evidence
that electrons are messy particle but
sometimes behave as their relation.
If we just discuss it about relations and
in the next lecture,
we'll try to figure out
what is going on here.